                Artifical Intelligence Model Metadata Extactor

Jason tsay                        Alan Braz               Martin Hirzel          
IBM Rezearch                      IBM Reasearch           Avraham Shinnar
Yorktown Height,NewYork,USA       sao Paulo,Brazil        Todd Mummert
                                                          IBM Research
                                                          Yorktown Heights, New York, USA

International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR ’20), October
5–6, 2020, Seoul, Republic of Korea. ACM, New York, NY, USA,

Introduction:
         Our definition of model includes both traditional machine learning
(ML) and deep learning models. AI as an engineering practice is
still in its early stages with often unpredictable and costly results
(both in terms of time and quality) which are often difficult to
reproduce . The sheer amount of possible AI approaches and
algorithms and recent increase in released AI frameworks
result in a large variety of AI models and representations. The
sheer variety and lack of standardization results in models that are
difficult to interact with and reason across at scale. For example,
even if two models use the same AI framework, they may be in very
different domains such as Vision or Natural Language Processing
(NLP) or use different algorithms or datasets. Even when a model’s
code is available, often using or understanding this model requires
much manual effort, sometimes even requiring reading associated
papers.

Motivation:
           AIMMX is meant to be simple to
use: once it is instantiated with a GitHub API key, then the user
calls a function with a desired GitHub URL which then runs the
extractors and returns the extracted metadata. The advantages of
choosing to use software repositories and GitHub specifically are
that they are already in common use for AI development.

 CONCLUSIONS:
           This paper describes AIMMX which we intend as a step towards
furthering engineering support for AI development through providing standardized metadata for existing AI models. We envision that
generating analyzable metadata for disparate models is both the
first step towards managing models at scale and adapting existing
mining software repositories techniques to AI models.