               Measuring Software Testability Modulo Test Quality

Valerio Terrangni           Pasquale Salza                Mauro Pezze
Switzerland                 University of Zurich          Scahaffhausen Institute of technology
                            Switzerland                   Switzerland

Introduction:
             It is well understood that the effort of testing software systems
depends on the artifacts under test, meaning that some software
systems are easier to test than others. Comprehending
the relation between software artifacts and test effort is extremely
important to control the cost of testing and improve the accuracy of
test plans. Software Testability captures the impact of software
artifacts on testing by estimating the degree to which a software
system or component under test supports its own testing. A software
system with a high degree of testability results in a low test effort.

Methodology:
            . We produced statistically significant and general
results for Java software systems, by conducting an experimental
study on a large set of heterogeneous Java software systems of
different size and category. Because heterogeneous projects are
likely to have different test-quality criteria, we introduce a novel
normalization procedure that homogenizes the values of test-effort
metrics according to the values of test-quality metrics.
We target systems designed with the Object Oriented
programming paradigm [45], which is based on the concept of “objects”
(instances of classes) that can contain both data (object fields) and
code (methods). In particular, we consider systems written in the
Java language.
Mutation analysis is a
well known alternative approach to evaluate the effectiveness of a
test suite. Mutation analysis seeds artificial faults in the class
under test, producing faulty versions (called mutants).

Result:
      Our results indicate that normalizing test effort with test quality
largely increases the correlation between class metric and test effort.
An improved correlation between class metric and test effort means
a better prediction of test effort
      
